Your kidneys are bean-shaped organs
located in the middle of your back,
on either side of your spine.
They process blood to sift out
waste products and extra water,
which becomes urine.
Kidney stones are formed mostly
from deposits of calcium
in the outer layer or cortex of the kidney.
Inside the kidney’s basic filtering unit,
called the glomerulus,
stones are slowly built up
from the joining of calcium-containing molecules.
This build-up can turn into a stone,
called a renal calculus,
which can eventually clog the ureter
the tube leading down from the
kidney to the bladder.
Once this tube is blocked,
it can become difficult for urine
to pass out of the body.
If the flow of urine is blocked,
pressure can build
and cause pain that begins suddenly
in the back or abdomen.
As it moves down this very sensitive tube,
the renal calculus can be
the source of extreme pain.